---
permalink: /anime/boruto2/
layout: default
title: Exam Materials
---

<!DOCTYPE  html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="ru" lang="ru"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/><title>Microsoft Word - Article OBS.docx</title><style type="text/css"> * {margin:0; padding:0; text-indent:0; }
 .s1 { color: black; font-family:TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT, serif; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold; text-decoration: none; font-size: 14pt; }
 h1 { color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: bold; text-decoration: none; font-size: 14pt; }
 .s2 { color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: italic; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 14pt; }
 .s3 { color: black; font-family:TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT, serif; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold; text-decoration: none; font-size: 12pt; }
 h2 { color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: bold; text-decoration: none; font-size: 12pt; }
 .s4 { color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: italic; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 12pt; }
 .s5 { color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 12pt; }
 .p, p { color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 14pt; margin:0pt; }
 .s6 { color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 9pt; vertical-align: 4pt; }
 .s7 { color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 11pt; }
 li {display: block; }
 #l1 {padding-left: 0pt;counter-reset: c1 1; }
 #l1> li>*:first-child:before {counter-increment: c1; content: counter(c1, decimal)". "; color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 14pt; }
 #l1> li:first-child>*:first-child:before {counter-increment: c1 0;  }
 li {display: block; }
 #l2 {padding-left: 0pt;counter-reset: d1 1; }
 #l2> li>*:first-child:before {counter-increment: d1; content: counter(d1, decimal)". "; color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 13pt; }
 #l2> li:first-child>*:first-child:before {counter-increment: d1 0;  }
 #l3 {padding-left: 0pt;counter-reset: d2 1; }
 #l3> li>*:first-child:before {counter-increment: d2; content: counter(d2, decimal)". "; color: black; font-family:"Times New Roman", serif; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; font-size: 11pt; }
 #l3> li:first-child>*:first-child:before {counter-increment: d2 0;  }
</style></head><body><p class="s1" style="padding-top: 3pt;padding-left: 24pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 16pt;text-align: center;">Мохаммад Аршил Хан, Шах Шивангини</p><h1 style="padding-left: 24pt;text-indent: 0pt;text-align: center;">ИЗУЧЕНИЕ СЛОЖНЫХ ВЗАИМООТНОШЕНИЙ МЕЖДУ КОНТРОЛИРУЕМОЙ ГИПЕРСТИМУЛЯЦИЕЙ ЯИЧНИКОВ И СУПЕРФЕКУНДАЦИЕЙ ПРИ ЭКОЛОГИЧНОМ ОПЛОДОТВОРЕНИИ</h1><p class="s1" style="padding-left: 24pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 16pt;text-align: center;">Научные Руководитель: к.ф.-м.н., ассистент Жуковская С.В.</p><p class="s2" style="padding-left: 24pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 16pt;text-align: center;">Кафедра акушерства и гинекологии</p><p class="s2" style="padding-left: 24pt;text-indent: 0pt;text-align: center;">Белорусский государственный медицинский университет, г. Минск</p><p style="text-indent: 0pt;text-align: left;"><br/></p><p class="s3" style="text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 14pt;text-align: right;">Mohammad Arshil Khan, Shah Shivangini</p><h2 style="padding-left: 24pt;text-indent: 0pt;text-align: center;">EXPLORING THE COMPLEX RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CONTROLLED OVARIAN HYPERSTIMULATION AND SUPERFECUNDATION IN IN VITRO FERTILIZATION</h2><p class="s3" style="text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 14pt;text-align: right;">Tutor: PhD, assistant Zhukovskaya S.V.</p><p class="s4" style="padding-left: 155pt;text-indent: 18pt;text-align: left;">Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Belarusian State Medical University, Minsk</p><p style="text-indent: 0pt;text-align: left;"><br/></p><h2 style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Резюме. <span class="s5">В этом исследовании изучается связь между контролируемой гиперстимуляцией яичников (КГЯ) и суперфертильностью при экстракорпоральном оплодотворении (ЭКО). В нем исследуется, как COH влияет на вероятность сверхплода и последствия для многоплодной беременности.</span></h2><h2 style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">Ключевые слова: <span class="s5">КОГ, супероплодотворение, ЭКО, подсчет антральных фолликулов, антимюллеровский гормон, лечение бесплодия, кистозные анэхогенные зоны..</span></h2><h2 style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">Resume. <span class="s5">This study examines the link between controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) and superfecundation in in vitro fertilization (IVF). It explores how COH affects the likelihood of superfecundation and the implications for multiple pregnancies.</span></h2><h2 style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">Keywords: <span class="s5">COH, Superfecundation, IVF, Antral follicle count, Anti-Müllerian hormone, fertility treatment, cystic anechoic zones.</span></h2><p style="text-indent: 0pt;text-align: left;"><br/></p><h1 style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Relevance. <span class="p">In vitro fertilization (IVF) is an assisted reproductive technology that involves controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) to increase the number of oocytes and improve IVF outcomes. However, COH may also increase the risk of superfecundation, where multiple embryos develop from different sperm cells fertilizing separate oocytes. The complex relationship between COH and superfecundation in IVF has been a topic of interest for researchers due to its potential impact on IVF outcomes.</span></h1><h1 style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Aim: <span class="p">To examine the relationship between controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) and the incidence of superfecundation in in vitro fertilization (IVF) and to evaluate the benefits and risks of COH for IVF patients.</span></h1><h1 style="padding-left: 41pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 16pt;text-align: left;">Objective:</h1><ol id="l1"><li data-list-text="1."><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">To review and analyze the available evidence on the relationship between COH and superfecundation in IVF..</p></li><li data-list-text="2."><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">To explore and evaluate the potential implications of the relationship between COH and superfecundation on IVF outcomes, particularly in relation to the increased risk of multiple pregnancies and associated maternal and fetal complications..</p></li><li data-list-text="3."><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">To emphasize the importance of implementing careful monitoring protocols for patients undergoing COH, and to identify the potential benefits of individualized stimulation protocols for reducing the risk of excessive follicular development and associated complications during IVF treatment</p></li><li data-list-text="4."><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">To identify and assess the limitations of current research on the relationship between COH and superfecundation in IVF, particularly with regard to the rarity of the</p></li></ol><p style="padding-top: 3pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 16pt;text-align: left;">phenomenon and the difficulties in detecting it using standard methods.</p><h1 style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">Material and Methods. <span class="p">In this study we explore the complex relationship between controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and superfecundation in in vitro fertilization including a review of relevant literature and data analysis of previous studies. The literature review involved a comprehensive search of databases, including PubMed, Google Scholar, and ScienceDirect, using relevant keywords such as &quot;controlled ovarian hyperstimulation,&quot; &quot;superfecundation,&quot; and &quot;in vitro fertilization.&quot; The studies included in the analysis were selected based on their relevance to the research question and their quality, as determined by established criteria. The data analysis involved a systematic evaluation of the studies to identify common themes and patterns related to the incidence and factors influencing superfecundation in IVF, as well as the benefits and risks of COH in IVF.</span></h1><h1 style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">Results and Discussion. <span class="p">Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation is a process that involves administering hormonal medications to stimulate the ovaries to produce multiple follicles containing mature oocytes for retrieval during IVF treatment. The success of COH depends on various factors such as age, baseline hormone levels, and previous ovarian response to stimulation medication.</span></h1><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">According to A study on women with polycystic ovary syndrome undergoing COH, antral follicle count (AFC) and anti-Müllerian hormone level (AMH) can predict the risk of developing  ovarian  hyperstimulation  syndrome  during  IVF  treatment.  Therefore, individualized stimulation protocols based on AFC and AMH levels may help prevent excessive stimulation and associated complications.<span class="s6">[1]</span></p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Moreover, a study suggests that N-acetylcysteine improves oocyte quality by modulating oxidative stress caused by repeated COH through activation of the nuclear factor erythroid  2-related  factor  2  signaling  pathway.  This  finding  highlights  potential interventions for improving IVF outcomes through reducing oxidative stress related damage<span class="s6">.[2]</span></p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Superfecundation refers to a rare event where two or more sperm cells fertilize separate oocytes during a single menstrual cycle, leading to the development of multiple embryos with different genetic backgrounds. This phenomenon may occur spontaneously or as a result of assisted reproductive technology such as IVF.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">A study on couples with unexplained subfertility suggests that timed intercourse in association with COH can increase the chance of pregnancy without increasing the risk of multiple pregnancies. However, this approach does not eliminate the possibility of superfecundation.<span class="s6">[3]</span></p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Furthermore, a study reports that cystic anechoic zones (CAZ) observed during COH may affect pregnancy outcomes following fresh embryo transfer. The presence and size of CAZ should be considered when interpreting ultrasound results and making decisions regarding embryo transfer.<span class="s6">[4]</span></p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">The relationship between COH and superfecundation is complex due to various factors that influence both processes. Increased follicle production through COH increases the likelihood of ovulating more than one egg per cycle, which increases the probability of superfecundation occurring during fertilization.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Moreover, hormonal changes caused by COH may also alter cervical mucus quality and uterine environment, affecting sperm function and survival time. These changes may facilitate multiple sperm cells reaching oocytes at different times within a menstrual cycle,</p><p style="padding-top: 3pt;padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 0pt;text-align: justify;">leading to superfecundation.Current evidence on the relationship between COH and superfecundation is limited due to its rare occurrence and difficulty in detecting it using standard methods such as genetic testing or DNA fingerprinting analysis. Therefore, most studies rely on indirect measures such as twin gestations or mixed ancestry for identifying cases of superfecundation.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Future research directions could include developing better methods for detecting superfecundation, evaluating the impact of stimulation protocols and medications on its occurrence, and investigating potential interventions to minimize its effects on IVF outcomes.</p><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">The relationship between COH and superfecundation has implications for IVF outcomes due to increased risk of multiple pregnancies, which are associated with higher maternal and fetal complications. Therefore, clinicians should carefully monitor patients undergoing COH and consider individualized stimulation protocols to reduce the risk of excessive follicular development.</p><h1 style="padding-left: 41pt;text-indent: 0pt;line-height: 16pt;text-align: left;">Conclusion:</h1><ol id="l2"><li data-list-text="1."><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">The relationship between COH and superfecundation is complex and influenced by various factors. The current evidence on the relationship between COH and superfecundation is limited due to its rare occurrence and difficulty in detecting it using standard methods such as genetic testing or DNA fingerprinting analysis.</p></li><li data-list-text="2."><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">The relationship between COH and superfecundation has implications for IVF outcomes due to the increased risk of multiple pregnancies, which are associated with higher maternal and fetal complications.</p></li><li data-list-text="3."><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">Careful monitoring of patients undergoing COH and considering individualized stimulation protocols based on antral follicle count (AFC) and anti-Müllerian hormone level (AMH) can help prevent excessive stimulation and associated complications.</p></li><li data-list-text="4."><p style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: left;">The limitations of the study include the limited evidence on the relationship between COH and superfecundation, the rarity of superfecundation, and the difficulty in detecting it using standard methods.</p><p style="text-indent: 0pt;text-align: left;"><br/></p><h2 style="padding-top: 11pt;padding-left: 24pt;text-indent: 0pt;text-align: center;">Literature</h2><ol id="l3"><li data-list-text="1."><p class="s5" style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Izhar, Rubina et al. “Antral follicle count and anti-Müllerian hormone level as predictors of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in women with polycystic ovarian syndrome undergoing controlled ovarian   stimulation.”   Journal   of   ultrasonography   vol.   21,86   (2021):   e200-e205. doi:10.15557/JoU.2021.0032</p></li><li data-list-text="2."><p class="s5" style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Fan, Lijie et al. “N-Acetylcysteine improves oocyte quality through modulating the Nrf2 signaling pathway to ameliorate oxidative stress caused by repeated controlled ovarian hyperstimulation.” Reproduction, fertility, and development vol. 34,10 (2022): 736-750.</p></li><li data-list-text="3."><p class="s5" style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Radaelli, Moacir Rafael Martins et al. “Timed intercourse in association with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation as the first-line treatment of couples with unexplained subfertility.” JBRA assisted reproduction vol. 26,4 612-619. 9 Nov. 2022</p></li><li data-list-text="4."><p class="s7" style="padding-left: 5pt;text-indent: 35pt;text-align: justify;">Tian, Yizheng et al. “The Cystic Anechoic Zone of Uterine Cavity Newly Observed during Controlled Ovarian Hyperstimulation Affects Pregnancy Outcomes of Fresh Embryo Transfer.” Journal of clinical medicine vol. 12,1 134. 24 Dec. 2022</p></li></ol></li></ol></body></html>
